---
title: Little tech doesn't mean small.
published_at: 2025-03-11T08:23:00
---
The biggest little tech company on the planet has helped generate $800bn in
enterprise value over the last 20 years.

Y Combinator started 20 years ago (today, in fact) as an experiment: Could you
start angel investing in a way where you focus on the people who actually create
the returns instead of people who can talk "business" correctly?

## Big impact, small teams.

YC started with just two people, Jessica Livingston and Paul Graham. Eventually,
they expanded to four, but anyone who was there in the early days knows it's PG
and JL's labor of love. YC wasn't in the black, as far as I'm aware, until the
Heroku acquisition in 2010. For the first 5 full years of YC's existence, YC was
PG + JL + RTM + Trevor Blackwell. (Plus JLevy, Kate Corteau, Kirsty Nathoo, and
probably other people I'm forgetting.)

YC's two biggest hits, Airbnb and Stripe, attended YC during 2008 and 2009
respectively. And, if you count Twitch, Open AI and Reddit, whose founders were
in the initial batch in 2005, YC has had an outsized impact on the world since
its founding.

Until Heroku's acquisition by Salesforce, YC wasn't in the black. They even had
to take on minimal funding early to make the model work. But once it worked, it
really worked.

## YC is still little tech, even today

Any technology company of significance ends up with thousands of employees, or
so the maxim goes. As far as I can tell, YC has no more than 50 people who could
credibly count themselves as employees (though this isn't a fact checked number,
lmk the real number if you know it.)

50 people who've helped start companies worth $800bn.

Y Combinator actually is a lambda calculus term, it means a function that
generates functions. Naturally, YC is a startup that generates startups.

## Big tech impact doesn't have to come from big tech firms.

With the emergence of AI, it's more reasonable than at any point in history to
create an outsized impact (while you're still alive!) with a handful of people.
Small teams, running leanly, can make progress enough to stay alive
indefinitely... and if they do that it's unclear how big their ideas can get.

## This is why Big Little Tech exists.

We're here to cover / support three core ideas:

1. Small teams making meaningful innovations defined by impact, not monetary
   value
2. Emerging niche tools that are quietly changing industries
3. Minimalist or lightweight tech solutions that do more with less.

## Small teams making meaningful innovations

I'd like to do something weird for technology journalism: I'd like to find
innovative creators before they're known. For every Cursor, there's some anon
making something cool that nobody knows about yet.

I want to be the "first check in", but in the storytelling department. I want to
find interesting technologies before anyone else has heard of them, and help
them tell their story clearly to a billion people.

## Emerging tools

With the pace of AI, a new tool hits the interwebs every week. We're going to
sort through which tools are impactful for which people. Helping small teams
have a big impact also means pushing small teams toward working on the highest
impact projects, and not necessarily following the latest trends.

## Minimalist tech

For some, PHP, Rust, or Typescript are all they need. They don't need docker
containers, Kubernetes clusters, or extensive AWS setups to ship their MMO
flight simulator.

For others, reliability and uptime are the difference between a 90% useful
solution that nobody uses, and 99.999% reliability which everyone depends on.

---

## Expect us.

My background is in the middle of communication and tech. I'm here to find out
as much as I am to talk. We're building this as we go, but it's following all
the principles we're going to cover.

Expect video, audio, and text. Expect high standards. Expect us to be critical,
but always fair. Expect us to avoid clickbait. Expect us to be the publication
your friends will read, and the conference that you'll never miss.

We're ready. Let's do this.
